2002 United Services Automobile Asn Data Scientist Intermediate Level Job Charlotte
Skip to
Main Content
Log In
Jobs
Salaries
Sign Up
Log In
Data Scientist - Intermediate level
2002 United Services Automobile Asn
Charlotte, NC
Apply Now
Data Scientist - Intermediate level
2002 United Services Automobile Asn
Charlotte, NC
Vision
                  ,
                  Medical
                  ,
                  Dental
                  ,
                  Paid Time Off
                  ,
                  Life Insurance
                  ,
                  Retirement
Full-Time
Why USAA?
At USAA, our mission is to empower our members to achieve financial security through highly competitive products, exceptional service and trusted advice. We seek to be the #1 choice for the military community and their families.
Embrace a fulfilling career at USAA, where our core values - honesty, integrity, loyalty and service - define how we treat each other and our members. Be part of what truly makes us special and impactful.
The Opportunity
As a dedicated Data Scientist, you will work with our Enterprise Personalization and Digital partners to create analytical and modeling solutions that drive higher member engagement, more relevant/timely interactions, our member data accuracy and completeness, and more efficiently develop member journey with digital channels and capabilities.
We offer a flexible work environment that requires an individual to be
in the office 4 days per week.
This position can be based in one of the following locations: San Antonio, TX, Plano, TX, Phoenix, AZ, or Charlotte, NC. Relocation assistance is
not
available for this position.
What you'll do:
Gathers, interprets, and manipulates structured and unstructured data to enable analytical solutions for the business.
Selects the appropriate modeling technique and/or technology with consideration to data limitations, application, and business needs.
Develops and deploys models within the Model Development Control (MDC) and Model Risk Management (MRM) framework.
Composes technical documents for knowledge persistence, risk management, and technical review audiences. Consults with peers for guidance, as needed.
Translates business request(s) into specific analytical questions, executing on the analysis and/or modeling, and communicating outcomes to non-technical business colleagues.
Consults with Data Engineering, IT, the business, and other internal customers to deploy analytical solutions that are aligned with the customer's vision and specifications and consistent with modeling best practices and model risk management standards.
Seeks opportunities and materials to learn new techniques, technologies, and methodologies.
Ensures risks associated with business activities are effectively identified, measured, monitored, and controlled in accordance with risk and compliance policies and procedures.
What you have:
Bachelor's degree in mathematics, computer science, statistics, economics, finance, actuarial sciences, science and engineering, or other similar quantitative discipline; OR 4 years of experience in statistics, mathematics, quantitative analytics, or related experience (in addition to the minimum years of experience required) may be substituted in lieu of degree.
2 years of experience in predictive analytics or data analysis OR Advanced Degree (e.g., Master's, PhD) in mathematics, computer science, statistics, economics, finance, actuarial sciences, science and engineering, or other similar quantitative field.
Experience in training and validating statistical, physical, machine learning, and other advanced analytics models.
Experience in one or more dynamic scripted language (such as Python, R, etc.) for performing statistical analyses and/or building and scoring AI/ML models.
Ability to write code that is easy to follow, well documented, and commented where necessary to explain logic (high code transparency).
Experience in querying and preprocessing data from structured and/or unstructured databases using query languages such as SQL, HQL, NoSQL, etc.
Experience in working with structured, semi-structured, and unstructured data files such as delimited numeric data files, JSON/XML files, and/or text documents, images, etc.
Familiarity with performing ad-hoc analytics using descriptive, diagnostic, and inferential statistics.
Experience with the concepts and technologies associated with classical supervised modeling for prediction such as linear/logistic regression, discriminant analysis, support vector machines, decision trees, forest models, etc.
Experience with the concepts and technologies associated with unsupervised modeling such as k-means clustering, hierarchical/agglomerative clustering, neighbors algorithms, DBSCAN, etc.
Ability to communicate analytical and modeling results to non-technical business partners.
What sets you apart:
Test and learn experimentation; hypothesis formulation/design and statistical methodology for analysis of results; alternative statistical methodologies (explore range of statistical methodologies, such as regression, multi-factorial design, difference in difference, etc. to provide options to analyze results)
Experience building predictive models, using machine learning methodologies such as: regression, graph network, classification models.
Experience with anomaly detection, applied to Member/Customer Profile and Interaction Data
Experience quantifying the financial or business impact of machine learning models, including impact on revenue, cost savings, or operational efficiency.
Experience collaborating with cross-functional teams, such as agile/scrum teams, data engineering, data stewards, and product owners/managers.
Operations research experience, applying optimization and simulation modeling, scenario analyses, or arbitration of the best offers.
Flexible and proactive thinker who designs innovative analytical approaches to solve the business problem.
Compensation range:
The salary range for this position is: $93,770.00 - $179,240.00
.
Compensation:
USAA has an effective process for assessing market data and establishing ranges to ensure we remain competitive. You are paid within the salary range based on your experience and market data of the position. The actual salary for this role may vary by location.
Employees may be eligible for pay incentives based on overall corporate and individual performance and at the discretion of the USAA Board of Directors.
The above description reflects the details considered necessary to describe the principal functions of the job and should not be construed as a detailed description of all the work requirements that may be performed in the job.
Benefits:
At USAA our employees enjoy best-in-class benefits to support their physical, financial, and emotional wellness. These benefits include comprehensive medical, dental and vision plans, 401(k), pension, life insurance, parental benefits, adoption assistance, paid time off program with paid holidays plus 16 paid volunteer hours, and various wellness programs. Additionally, our career path planning and continuing education assists employees with their professional goals.
For more details on our outstanding benefits, visit our benefits page on USAAjobs.com.
Applications for this position are accepted on an ongoing basis, this posting will remain open until the position is filled. Thus, interested candidates are encouraged to apply the same day they view this posting.
USAA is an Equal Opportunity Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, or status as a protected veteran.
Address
2002 United Services Automobile Asn
Charlotte,
NC
USA
Industry
Technology
Posted date
February 03, 2025
Report Job
Most Popular Xai Job Categories
Nlp
Nlp Coach
Ai Ml
Amazon Nlp
Wargaming
Business Intelligence Data Scientist
Nlp Scientist
Apple Data Scientist
Anova Health
Walmart Machine Learning
Report Job
Select a reason for reporting this job
This job is offensive or discriminatory
This job appears to be fake
This job or the information included is inaccurate
This job is an advertisement for something other than hiring
This job is expired
This job is a duplicate of another job
Other
Continue
Last Step!
Your feedback is important to us.
Please tell us why you are reporting this job with relevant details.
Cancel
Submit
Really cancel your report?
You must enter a reason to report this job. Clicking "Cancel Report" below will NOT submit your job report.
Enter Reason
Cancel Report
Thanks for letting us know
Your feedback helps keep ZipRecruiter safe.
Learn more about
how to recognize common online scams
.
Close
All Jobs
Xai Jobs
Create or sign into a ZipRecruiter account, and then apply on the company site¹
Continue
¹You may also apply directly on the company website.
By clicking “Continue” above,I agree to the ZipRecruiter
Terms of Use
and acknowledge I have read the
Privacy Policy
, and agree to receive email job alerts.
You Already Have an Account
We're sending an email you can use to verify and access your account.
If you know your password, you can go to the
sign in page
.
Close
Job Seekers
Search Jobs
Browse Jobs
Search Salaries
Who is Phil?
Job Seeker Reviews
Mobile Apps
Create Free Account
Job Seeker Support
Trust and Safety
Career Advice
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Small & Medium Businesses
Post a Job
How it Works
Job Sites
ZipRecruiter Reviews
Plans
Search Resumes
New Account Help
Employer Support
Enterprise Businesses
Enterprise Overview
How it Works
Customer Stories
FAQs
Request a Consultation
Partner with Us
Job Board Software
ATS Integrations
Company
About Us
Careers
Investors
Blog
Press
Engineering
ZipRecruiter.org
ZipRecruiter UK
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Your privacy is our priority. Learn more:
Your Privacy Choices
COVID-19 Resources
Privacy Policy
California Privacy Notice
Terms  of Use
Cookie Policy
Job Posting Rules
Attribution  Notices
Corporate Responsibility
ZipRecruiter, Inc. © 2025 All Rights Reserved Worldwide